In this lecture, you'll learn about the upper layers of the OSI model.
That's the upper three layers,
5, 6, and 7. Network engineers don't typically work directly with those upper three layers of
the OSI model.
They're more relevant to application developers, but we still need to know what they do.
And for the exam, we need to know the definitions of each of the layers as well.
It's quite likely that you'll be tested on that.
So in this lecture, that's primarily what I'm going to be doing is giving you the Cisco definitions,
so you'll be ready for the exam. Information included in the upper layers would include the Message Body
and the Subject Line in an email message for example.
So let's look at the three top layers starting with Layer 7,
the Application Layer.
This provides network services to the applications of the end user.
It differs from the other layers in that it does not provide services to any other OSI layer.
The application layer establishes the availability of intended communication partners. Intended communication
partners would be the host that
this host is communicating with. If you remember from the lecture, before we were discussing the OSI
model, you saw that straight line between two hosts at the same layer of the OSI Stack. So the application
layer, it establishes the availability of intended communication partners, not just straight line going
to the other host. It then synchronizes and establishes agreement on procedures for error recovery and
control of data integrity. Data integrity means checking that data has not been altered or corrupted
in transit.
The next layer is Layer 6, the Presentation Layer. This ensures that the information that is sent at
the Application Layer of one system is readable by the Application Layer of another system. The Presentation
Layer can translate among multiple data format using a common format, for example, it might need to
do this for computers with different encoding schemes. And the last layer of our upper layers is Layer 5,
the Session Layer.
This establishes, manages, and terminates sessions between two communicating hosts. The Session Layer also
synchronizes dialogue between the Presentation Layer of the two hosts and manages data exchange.
For example, we might have web servers which have got many users that are using that web server.
So, in that case, we would have multiple incoming sessions.
The Session Layer keeps track of all of those.
It also offers efficient data transfer, Class of Service (CoS), which is similar to efficient data transfer,
and exception reporting of upper layer problems.
Okay, so that's the definitions of the upper layers.
We'll go into the definitions of the bottom four layers in the next lecture.